Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to go over all of those settings that are
included in your job posting category skills duration.
All of those different little toggles that you can put which ones are important.
Which ones are not.
You'd be surprised some of these make a huge difference on how successful your projects going to be
and some of them are just not a big deal.
We're going to cover each individual one and talk about what you need to do depending on what you're
trying to accomplish but in general what are the best practices.
So let's go to screencast.
All right.
Let's talk about the details that are attached to your postings.
So you're in L.A. It's going to ask you a category of work.
Can I ask you for a specific set of skills or groups.
I'm going to ask you if you'd like hourly or fixed rate.
How many hours do you think they're going to be working and then it's gas.
Things like Job visibility location preferences when it's going to start and how long you want the post
to be posted for now on freelancer.
They're a little bit simpler they just ask for your budget fixed price per hour or then they'll going
to ask you if you want to pay them extra money for a variety of services and we're going to cover all
of these and then on up work which is oDesk remember they asked very similar things they ask again for
a category subcategory skills a fixed price per hour.
They ask you for your budget they'll ask you again job visibility and how many freelancers you want
and then they have things called preferred qualifications cover letter and screening questions.
Now in the next lecture we're going to go over screening questions.
I'm going to skip over that but I'm going to show you these are very very important things in your posting.
They can really determine the batch of bids that you get if you get good details and you do them correctly.
You're going to have a much better group of kids you might get fewer beds but they're going to be much
higher quality.
We really want to focus on getting rid of all of those junk beds that just take up time from you having
to read them and having to determine that they're not very good.
So I start with Lance Lance is pretty simple when you ask for a category of work they break it down
into a really a very imprecise group if you're going to be doing programming or anything to do with
web sites anything to do with applications anything to do with desktop applications or really anything
it's going to be under I.T. programming.
And then you get to select a section now.
Sections are important because this is how people find it when they're searching for browse by jobs.
It's a criteria they can select and then pick their area.
Occasionally you'll find things that overlap database development database administration.
Typically the best thing to do is to just google what these words mean and that can help you quite a
bit to determine what exactly it should go in.
It's not the end of the world if you get one of these wrong because you're actually going to be getting
the majority of your freelancers or your contractors from this skill groups and I'll explain why.
Now in every single one they're going to ask you for specific skills or groups.
I've never actually used the group's function.
I always do skills when asked for skills you need to think about your project and what specifically
someone should need to know to be good at it.
But then you're also going to think about things that might be adjacent only related because a lot of
times you might just not be able to find exactly the skills that you want.
What happens is when someone say let's say you know we'll just grab one AB testing.
Let's say that someone has a profile on elance and they have selected that they're good at AB testing.
So when I make this project it's actually going to end up displaying on their personalized page when
they log in.
Sometimes it even messages them if they have the exact skill set.
So Lance has done the majority of the work for you.
They're going to go out and look for people specifically with that skill set and they're going to get
alerted to your job postings.
So this is the most important thing.
Honestly don't spend more than a minute trying to figure out what you should be and usually it's obvious
but sometimes it's not.
It can get a little more complicated when you're doing something like appear you have design and they
kind of lost a lot of things into it.
Like what do you do if you want someone to do your logo and your banner ad or a brochure and a banner
ad typically you just pick one or the other it doesn't really matter and then focus on including both
those skill sets when you select skills.
But yeah it can get a little complicated especially when you do things like sales and marketing.
A lot of these things to be honest some of them I'm not totally sure what the difference is but I'm
telling you right now it doesn't really matter if you get it exactly right.
Just try to get one of the categories that scrape edges with what you're trying to do because typically
someone who is looking and you know a in a category is going to have skills that are related to an adjacent
category.
If someone's looking at email marketing they probably also have skills in e-mails and e-mail like bulk
sending or say skills in writing e-mails or things like that.
So you really can't go wrong.
So for the project up above I'm just going to try to make this.
We'll try to set the skills for what was.
You know I did before.
So what I usually do is just go for the obvious one which is there's an iOS application so you can always
just type in Iowa.
And then here we go we have iOS 5 6 7 iOS development iOS jailbreaking.
Now Iowa currently is in iOS 8.
They just haven't updated this to say iOS 8.
Why do they have five six seven.
Because a lot of times what'll happen is Apple update and have a new iOS but not every single person
has learned the new S and Tri-Cities of the new operating system or the new tools and so someone might
list iOS 6 and not list iOS 7 because they have not yet figured out how to deal with a flat design or
any of the new architecture changes.
Typically what I will do in this case is I will pick the broad one because anyone who list 5 6 7 is
going to be listed in iOS development also.
Not particularly.
I don't care if someone bids and they only have iOS 5 listed.
Chances are they can figure it out.
I'm not really it's not worth trying to whittle it down even farther than that so I would just say iOS
development and then typically what I like to do is pick the most recent one because what that will
do is increase the match for someone who isn't iOS developer because chances are they have both of these
listed.
I would not list Iris jailbreaking because that is specific to a technique you use to jailbreak.
The phone has nothing to do with creating applications.
OK so then what would I do past that.
Well here is it.
Now I have kind of almost exhausted my list because that's exactly what I was looking for.
What I might do now is I might look for specific skills or frameworks that I'd like to include.
Remember how we mentioned SML tools.
So I said Twilley.
So let's try to do Twilio this might save me some time right because someone might actually know how
to use that theory.
I can add that now that was a specific skill that I included adding details like small things that might
be involved in it and they don't have to match every single skill set in order to apply.
Now that you've exhausted pretty much everything you would have.
Now you can look for things that are adjacent but not related.
And obviously what I like to do is I'll just look for like mobile development and it'll give me something
very generic so like mobile development framework.
You know someone who is skilled in mobile development frameworks probably might have skills in Iowa.
So I might pick that.
Really I'm just trying to get the audience of that group because I'm looking to make an op iOS app I'm
looking for mobile developers.
I'm looking for anything that that group is likely to have to get their attention.
Now it's up to you whether or not you want to list out other things like android.
This might be confusing to someone if he says iOS app and they get a list as Android.
They might think that oh maybe down the line you want to make an Android app a lot a lot a lot of times
people make Android apps but they do not make iOS ups or the other way around.
I usually say no don't do that.
So really I think it's always best your best case scenario is you max out however many options you have.
Right now I have five.
I now have four and I need to get to five.
There is no advantage to putting fewer than 5.
So you should always pick something and if you're really stretching for something just try to get something
roughly in the same general area.
So maybe we could try AppStore AppStore optimization App Store.
Again this might be something that might be on their profile.
We could try to make something really really vague or your just a mobile just to see what shows up.
So we have J queery mobile mobile app testing development framework here.
And here's a perfect world mobile programming super vague that would fit who anyone who wants to work
on this it could fit a lot of other people as well.
Generally vague ones are helpful or helpful to have a couple of vague skills because that's going to
broaden the group that you get.
Broaden the group that sees this but then get other specific one so that you don't have people applying
when they don't even have the right skill sets.
They like a Windows developer or something like that.
Now setting your work arrangement it's really just going to ask for a fixed price or for an hourly.
Now this is up to you if you wanted to work hourly.
You could put hourly in if you wanted to work fixed rate you put fixed rate have a separate lecture
in this course specifically talking about these two because there is a lot more that goes into this
determining what you want to pay how you want to pay them what you want to pay them.
That's really deserves a lecture in and of itself.
So if you want to know how to do this one correctly.
Go and find that lecture.
It's just about whether or not you pay someone time and materials.
Also known as hourly or whether or not you use fixed price and if you do use fixed price how do you
do that correctly.
So if I was not specific as to what I wanted what I would typically do is I would pick a fixed price
and this is something that's very specific to Elance you go decide later.
There you go.
OK so what that basically means is that's the non-commitment decide later means that when someone sees
your profile or job posting they're not going to see what your budget is.
Anyone who's worked with the app development studio and were guilty of this as well knows that you should
never tell them your budget immediately.
If someone knows your budget automatically It's amazing how the quotation that you're getting or the
estimate you're getting starts to fit that budget regardless of what it is.
You'll find that this is a very it's very US centric but in.
I save between 500 and a thousand dollars from my budget.
It will physically block people from bidding below dollars and block them from bidding over a above
a thousand.
Why would you not want that to happen.
What if you post something that actually costs $2000.
Everybody knows it.
What's ended up happening is that people are serious just aren't going to bid because they can't bid
the correct amount and other people are going to just assume that somehow it has to be in this range
so they bid in the range and you just end up having problems later because they feel like they're underpaid
or they feel like the estimate was just faulty.
So you're setting yourself up for failure pretty much right at the get go.
Never poder range.
It's not worth it.
It limits who's going to look at it and limits who's going to bid it always just put decide later.
Similarly you can do this with hourly as well.
You can say hourly decide later what that's going to do is it's going to give you a broad range of people
you'll get people in the United States bidding $60 an hour or a hundred dollars an hour and then you'll
get people from India bidding $5 an hour then you can make a merit based judgment.
The only time that I'd ever select one of these is if I specifically knew exactly what I was looking
for.
If I had experienced this and I knew the kind of like developer profile that I wanted.
That's the only time that I'd ever do this personally.
This is why I like to do fixed price decide later.
In general if you want to leave the door open as much as possible you could say hourly decide later
because typically people like hourly better.
I always say I use the X price because it's simpler.
If you do hourly you do you have to pick how many hours a week.
But again they leave the door open just to say decide later so you can do that as well.
One thing to keep in mind though is if you do say hourly someone comes and bids on it and you try to
fix it change it to fix price.
You might have a problem whereas the other way around.
No one's ever going to complain.
OK so quickly job posting visibility this is you know you always it's public or private.
So if it's private.
That just means you have to manually invite people to bid.
There's really no advantage to doing that.
You should take advantage of the freelancer profile the contractor profile that these platforms have.
That's why we use these because they're going to get you tons and tons of attention and estimates if
you do private.
I understand what the point of this is you're just taking advantage of their posting software.
And at that point you might as well just do a job posting so I do public.
And this is the one thing that you might want aside turning this off.
This means that will get indexed on Google and it gets index for quite a long time.
So if you have sensitive information or you don't want someone to know that you're moving into a certain
space or you're not you know you're launching in a certain area you might want to keep this off.
Maybe if you're doing something that's a little sketchy You might want to turn it off as well.
Preferred candidate location.
This is very very faulty system.
I personally can't stand this.
It works better on plants than the other ones because what you can do is you can say country and I could
just pick the country.
Now you can literally go down to the city and state but what you'll find is that you just don't get
very many bids like if I just said I only want people from Alabama or California.
It's just going to be a waste of time.
We're going to spend two weeks waiting for maybe a bid or two bids being really specific sounds great
because maybe you want someone in person but it's just not really there's not a huge advantage to that.
If you want to work with someone in person there are much better ways of doing this.
That wouldn't be outsourcing then actually you're just working with the contractor in person.
So one of the biggest problems that you have with the other systems is that they only have this option
selector region.
So you have to say like oh I want eastern Asia and North America what is wrong with that.
Obviously I think you guys can figure this out pretty quickly if I say North America thinking Oh Canada
and America United States.
Well guess who else is in North America.
Mexico you have the Caribbean you have Central American countries.
Is that exact.
Is that who you were thinking of when you thought North America.
This just doesn't really make any sense.
Like even if I say Southern Asia it doesn't really mean anything like you could quite literally be getting
people from Vietnam and Thailand when you meant India.
And same thing with Eastern Europe like Eastern Europe includes some areas that are actually quite expensive.
Is Austria included in Eastern Europe.
It's always kind of it's hard to make a call on this.
The only thing I've ever seen be effective with this is if you just knew an area that worked well that
fit within your price range and you knew your budget and your experience and you might say something
like Eastern Europe that's the only thing I could think of.
There's no reason why you'd ever like select these unless you for instance lived in Australia and you
specifically wanted someone from Australia.
But in that case you would just pick the country you wouldn't say Australia Oceana because then you
might get someone from now Peru or you know Kiribati year know those random islands that are.
I mean is Indonesia included in this.
I don't even know.
So if you're specific about the country pick the country.
But this is always just a faulty kind of system and you'll see that the other ones post this job for
Elance.
I typically will post them longer than the other ones but there's really no point in listing this past
15 days unless you have absolutely no hurry to hire someone what will happen is you say you post this
for 15 days or seven days or so say seven days within one day you're going to get 80 percent of your
bids and then you're going to get a trickle over the next couple weeks because if I'm someone who's
looking at a project and it's been up for a week already and there's already 32 bids What is the point
of me bidding on that.
So it's a massive disincentive for people to come and bid on your project and that's why I don't really
think there's a point in making it.
List the list keeping the listing open for a really long period of time.
There's not necessarily a negative to it but if you really wanted a long term kind of opportunity than
maybe you'd put it something longer again there's really no point in making a huge long runway like
this.
There is an advantage to putting one day to day three day because people will see that they say oh it's
a three day project I need to bid.
Now if it's a 90 day project they're probably not going to.
They'll say oh I'm in a bid later and just forget about it.
OK proposed start date this is helpful.
You do have a specific start date because certain freelancers look at that and go OK well if I get accepted
for this job I need to get my other jobs done by this time.
But you could just say start immediately after proposals selected and just tell people that OK so that
is Elance put the most time and thought into either and because they are the best they're going to give
you the most thoughtful bids.
But a lot of the things you just cover transferred to the other ones so it's not you didn't have to
do this over and over and over again.